I like TV shows. I always have. Particularly, ones about morally, ethically, and psychologically compromised characters. Breaking Bad, Hannibal, Dexter; the list goes on. I did not really know why until I figured it out: I liked seeing bad people try to do good things. In Breaking Bad, we see a cancer victim become a drug dealer; in Dexter we see a serial killer act based on his “code”; in Hannibal we see a mentally insane autistic man solve crimes with his incredible empathy. I always wanted the villains to turn good. I did not know why I cared about this, until I realized that it’s  how I felt about my own life, and my fathers. 

I feel so distant from humanity sometimes that it makes me want to exit. Not the planet, or life necessarily, just social situations. I thrive delving into my own self-interests: learning, coding, gaming, watching movies and TV shows, etc. I always have; I can not seem to engage properly with anyone around me. Girls, parties, spirit events; they always seem so distant from me, yet so close it's almost within my reach. And that's the thing -  I wish I could take advantage of the opportunities I have. I just can not seem to. 

I can not force myself to cry, even in the most dire scenarios. My dad drove me back from a party on Halloween. He was obscenely drunk. I did not know it at the time, or before I called for him to pick us up, but it ended up threatening me and my 8 friends’ lives. My best friend's girlfriend left my house sobbing; we talked for hours about how my dad seemed to have no value in our lives as he drove 80 miles-per-hour on the backroads at 12:30 in the morning; I sat in my room trying to cry to resolve the emotion I felt. The tears form in my eyelids, yet nothing pours out. None of it affected me, not even enough to fake basic human reaction.  	I sit in my room writing this to display my intent to frame myself as a human, though I feel I have no reason to think of myself as one.

But TV is fiction. The bad guys do not get to be the heroes; not in the real world anyway. I am just honestly trying to figure out which side I am on, and it's extremely hard to tell. I would like to think substances do not have any part of my mindset, but I would be lying if I said that. Alcohol does not numb me; it brings out the human in me. When I am mildly inebriated it is the one time I feel like I am being honest with myself, and when I have feelings. Otherwise everything feels numb, like I am going through the motions.

I do well in school, I probably will get into a good college, I have good friends, I am the person everything thinks I am supposed to be. But I honestly have no idea who I feel like I am supposed to be.
	
I have never been athletic, so that defaulted me to academics, in my 7th grade mind at least. Then I found out I was smart. Really smart. Smart enough to piss off my teachers, and smart enough to get me in trouble for knowing the wrong things. I have made this almost my entire personality; for the sole reason that if I do not, I have no personality whatsoever. 

My dad is a narcissist. I am pretty sure, at least. He is hyper intelligent but seems to have no empathy whatsoever. It's interesting. I have defaulted to using logic to process emotion. Which, in confession, makes utterly no sense considering logic and emotion are two completely different areas. Nevertheless, he seems to lack both intelligence in understanding human emotion and sympathy for other people's problems. He always thinks he is right, he feeds off of other people's acknowledgement of him, he constantly glorifies himself and his accomplishments; it's almost like there's no better word for him.

During the car ride home I realized that he genuinely has no compassion for anyone besides himself. Wreckless, careless, idiotic, narcissistic: all of these things I see in my father. However, what is more troubling is that I see some of him in myself.
