# APUSH Notes


The Last Founding Father: James Monroe and a Nation’s Call to Greatness, by Harlow Giles Unger
P 293: In the negotiations that followed, Adams let the Spanish government save face by withdrawing American troops and restoring nominal sover-eigny over the Florida panhandle to Spain. Spain then ceded both East and West Florida to the United States and renounced all claims to both territo-ries. The U.S., in turn, renounced all claims to Texas and agreed to pay $5 million to settle the claims of its citizens against Spain. In addition to ceding the Floridas, the Adams-Onís, or Transcontinental Treaty, defined western limits of the Louisiana Territory, with the Spanish ceding all claims to the Pacific Northwest and extending nominal U.S. sovereignty to the Pacific Ocean. In sending Jackson to seize Florida, Monroe had seized almost the entire continent. Together with the Louisiana Purchase, Monroe's acquisitions from Florida expanded the small nation he had inherited from George Washington into a vast, rich, and powerful empire. (See Map. No. 2, page
164) Of particular importance to Monroe was the extension of most of the nation's boundaries to positions with natural defenses. With the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River guarding the northern frontier and the At-antic Ocean protecting eastern shores, the Gulf of Mexico now guarded the South, while the waters of the Sabine and Arkansas Rivers ran along the southwestern borders and the Rocky Mountains stood as a fortress wall in the West, along with the Pacific Ocean on the extreme northwest.

The Monroe Doctrine, by Jay Sexton
P 44: In its first four decades, the United States transformed itself from a weak collection of former colonies to an increasingly united and expansive republic. It secured the lands east of the Mississippi and laid claim to portions of the faraway Pacific Coast. What had been uncertain in 1783-union at home and independence from an increasingly powerful British Empire-was closer to achieve ment in 1823, though still not an established fact.
P 49: Czar Alexander I issued a unilateral ukaz (edict) that asserted Russia's claim to a stretch of the Pacific Northwest and prohibited foreign vessels from using waters within one hundred miles of the coast-line. Second Line: The reactionary monarchies of Europe—France, Austria, Russia, and Prussia federated under the banner of the Holy Alliance to oppose any such constitutional or political reform. Third Line: To the horror of the United States, France acted on the Troppau principle in April 1823 when it intervened in Spain to suppress constitutionalists and restore the monarchy of Ferdinand VII.
P 50: These considerations prompted him to present the American minister to London, Richard Rush, with an intriguing offer to issue a joint declaration warning the Holy Allies to stay out of Spanish America. Given the convergence of interests between the two English-speaking governments, Canning asked Rush, "why should we hesitate mutually to confide them to each other; and to declare them in the face of the world?”. 
P 52: Adams feared that Canning's refusal to commit to Spanish American independence portended a duplicitous reversal in British policy that would leave the United States standing alone against the Holy Alliance.
P 53: Of the three paragraphs of the Doctrine, Adams solely authored one the noncolonization para-graph) and deeply influenced the other two (the nonintervention paragraphs). Second Line: Years after the fact, Adams contended that the diplomacy of 1823 went further than simply hitching a free ride on the Royal Navy: the noncolonization clause, he asserted, was nothing less than "a warning to Great Britain herself."'
P 55: Monroe and his cabin net did not set are theironounce a binding foreign policy doc-not to declare their diplomatic independence. To be sure, the satesmen of 1823 boldly proclaimed the principles of repub-licanism,
anticolonialism, and nonintervention. Second Line: The message paradoxically expressed both the confidence and anxiety of American statesmen. For all their caution and realism, the Monroe cabinet remained certain that American ideals and practices would transform global politics.
P 148: In 1862 the lin-coln administration rebuffed a proposal from a group of Lain American ministers in Washington to attend a hemispheric congress on the grounds that it might antagonize the powers of Europe. Second Line: Lincoln and Seward recognized that explicit invocation of the Monroe Doctrine might further provoke the French. (used for John Adams and his effect of future French conflicts)
P 149: Seward dropped not so suble hints in diplomatic dispatches to London that the United States would appreciate British support in pressing the French to withdraw from Mexico. (William Henry Seward was secretary of state.)
P 244: Twentieth-century Americans viewed the Doctrine as a symbol of the rising power of the United States. The acquiescence of Old World powers to the Doctrine, they argued, served as evidence of the increased authority of the United States. The unraveling of European empires and the ascendancy of American political and economic principles served as further evidence of the centrality of the Doctrine to the emergence of the so-called American century.

John Adams: A Life, by John Ferling
P 365: Their earlier efforts had failed, but they now succeeded in passing the Naturalization Act, a measure that increased to fourteen years the period that newcomers must wait before obtaining citizenship and the right to rote. Two acts concerned aliens. The Alien Friends Act vested in the president he authority to deport any alien whom he considered dangerous; the Alien nemies Act permitted the chief executive to deport aliens who hailed from a ation with which the United States was at war. The capstone of the Federalist ulwark against dissent was the Sedition Act, legislation that won Senate proval one day after the twenty-second anniversary of the Declaration of Independence.
P 367: The government did not even wait for the bill to clear Congress before it moved against the Republican press. The Aurora's Ben Bache was arrested in June on a charge of libeling the president; he died three months later while awaiting trial. John Daly Burk, an Irish alien who edited the New York Time Price, was seized in July, as was Matthew Lyon, a Republican congressman from Vermont. Burk met his bail (Aaron Burr paid it) and immediately fed to Virginia, where he vanished from sight. Lyon, an acerbic sort who had earned the enmity of every Federalist for having spat in the face of Congressman Roger Grisold of Connecticut during a heated legislative debate (thereafter referred to in the Federalist press as "the Spitting Lyon"), was charged with seditious libel after publishing a typically scathing article in the Vermont Journal. In the fall he was convicted, fined one thousand dollars, and sentenced to a four-month imprisonment, which he served in an unheated cell previously reserved for runaway slaves. Second Line: Many French aliens simply left the country after mid-1798, some out of jush at the suddenly inhospitable environment, some to return to France, hich recently had relaxed its restrictions upon the return of its émigrés, and lone to return to Santo Domingo, from whence they had fed in the course of a bloody slave insurrection in 1793.
P 372: Adams had told Congress that he would make no changes in American policy. In fact, something would have to be done. If nothing else, the existence ofa costly army required some movement. One solution to the quandary wasto give peace a chance only until the summer, watching in the meantime to se f Paris seized the proffer of a peaceful resolution held out in his recent speech.
That was the recommendation of Hamilton and his men. Jefferson feared they would have their way.
P 408: The Convention of Peace, Commerce and Navigation, variously called the Convention of 1800 and the Treaty of Môrtefontaine, was less inclusive than Adams had hoped for. While the agreement established peace between the two nations, recognized the right of the United States to trade in noncontraband with belligerents, and defined the items each regarded as contraband, it said nothing about indemnification for the American property seized by the French. That issue, as well as the question of a formal Franco-American al-liance, was deferred for future discussion.

John Adams, by David McCullough
P 483: Jefferson had described America as a country taken over by
"timid men who prefer the calm of despotism to the boisterous sea of lib-erty,"
P 484: May 16, 1797, John Adams in Congress: While we are endeavoring to adjust all our differences with France by amicable negotiation, with the progress of the war in Europe, the depredations on our commerce, the personal injuries to our citizens, and the general complexion of our affairs, render it my duty to recommend your consideration of effectual measures of defense.
P 485: Adams had not only failed to express sufficient sympathy for the French but had sounded a "war-whoop."
P 495: Promptly the next morning, Monday, March 5, Adams sent the uncoded dispatch to Congress. But there was more to the story, as he soon learned with the decoding of the other dispatches.
After arriving in Paris in the first week of October, the three American envoys were kept waiting for several days and then were granted a meeting with Foreign Minister Talleyrand for all of fifteen minutes. More days of silence followed. Then began a series of visits from three secret agents representing Talleyrand —Jean Conrad Hottinguer, Pierre Bel-lamy, and Lucien Hauteval —who were referred to by the Americans in their dispatches as X, Y, and Z. The Foreign Minister was favorably disposed toward the United States, the American envoys were informed, but in order for negotiations to proceed, a doucer (a weetener) would be necessary, a bribe of some $250,000 for Talleyrand personally. In addi-tron, a loan of $10,000,000 for the Republic of France was required as compensation for President Adams's "insults" in his speech before Congress the previous May.
P 505: Beyond that, the United States was at war-declared or not-and there were in fact numbers of enemy agents operating in the country.
The Alien Acts included a Naturalization Act, which increased the required period of residence to qualify for citizenship from five to fourteen years, and the Alien Act, which granted the President the legal right to expel any foreigner he considered "dangerous." In the view of the Vice President, the Alien Act was something worthy of the ninth century. Jefferson and others imagined a tempestuous John Adams expelling foreigners by the shipload. As it was, they need not have worried. Adams never Invoked the law and this despite the urging of Secretary of State Picker-ing, who did indeed favor massive deportations.
P 508: THE YEAR 1798, the most difficult and consequential year of John
Adams's presidency, was to provide him no respite. His stay at Quincy
would be longer even than the year before, but the stress of the undeclared war —the Quasi-War, as it came to be known, or Half-War, as he called it —combined with the threatening ambitions of Alexander Hamilton and growing dissension within Adams's own cabinet, filled his days with frustration and worry. There was precious little peace to be found at Peacefield in the summer of 1798, and especially as Abigail fell so ill that she very nearly died.
