# Monroe then embellished Calhoun's instructions with an even more enigmatic…

Monroe then embellished Calhoun's instructions with an even more enigmatic message that the Seminoles had "long violated our rights and insulted our national character." He told Jackson that "great interests are at issue, and until our course is carried through triumphantly - you ought not to withdraw your active support from it.

Well aware that carrying out his mission "triumphandy" would mean an attack on Spanish troops and a de facto declaration of war, Jackson sought to avoid personal responsibility for violating the Constitution. He nonetheless understood and agreed with the president's objective. They had become good friends after the Battle of New Orleans and had maintained a regular, confidential correspondence from that time. Monroe called their relationship one

The message informed the Holy Allies that the United States would consider any intervention in Spanish America as a threat to its own security, but sugarcoated this warning by pledging not to interfere in European affairs as well as to respect functional colonial arrangements established before December 2.
1823. The message expressed sympathy for the Greek rebels but stopped short of recommending recognition. Finally, it articulated a conception of national security that, despite their differ-ences, both Calhoun and Adams held. Premised upon a curious mixture of imperial ambitions and perceptions of internal vulner-ability, the national security of the United States required more than just the safety of its borders-it required an entire hem spheric system conducive to its political system and econom practices.

The message of 1823 articulated this extensive conception of national security in direct language. The noncolonization clause maintained that "the American continents, by the free and independent condition which they have assumed and maintain, are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for colonization by any European powers." The nonintervention clause declared that the Holy Alliance could not "extend their political system to any portion of either continent without endangering our peace and happiness."